#argo #workflows #training

A workflow is a series of tasks, processes, or steps that are executed in a specific sequence to achieve a particular goal or outcome. Workflows are prevalent in various domains, including business, software development, and project management. In the context of Argo and other DevOps tools, a workflow specifically refers to a sequence of automated steps involved in the deployment, testing, and promotion of software applications.

In Argo, the term Workflow is a Kubernetes Custom Resource that represents a sequence of tasks or steps that are defined and orchestrated to achieve a specific goal. It is a higher-level abstraction that allows users to describe complex processes, dependencies, and conditions in a structured and declarative manner. A Workflow also maintains the state of a workflow.

Next, we will take a look at the specs of a simple Workflow.

The main part of a Workflow spec contains an entrypoint and list of templates, as shown in the example below:

**apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1  
kind: Workflow  
metadata:  
  generateName: hello-world-  
spec:  
  entrypoint: whalesay  
  templates:  
- name: whalesay  
  container:  
    image: docker/whalesay  
    command: [cowsay]  
    args: ["hello world"]**

A Workflow spec has two core parts:

- Entrypoint: Specifies the name of the template that serves as the entrypoint for the workflow. It defines the starting point of the workflow execution.
- Templates: A template represents a step or task in the workflow that should be executed. There are six types of templates that we will introduce next.