#argo #workflows #training

In Argo Workflows, the outputs section within a step template allows you to define and capture outputs that can be accessed by subsequent steps or referenced in the workflow definition. Outputs are useful when you want to pass data, values, or artifacts from one step to another. Here's an overview of how outputs work in Argo Workflows. The Output comprises two key concepts:

- Defining Outputs: You define outputs within a step template using the outputs section. Each output has a name and a path within the container where the data or artifact is produced.
- Accessing Outputs: You can reference the outputs of a step using templating expressions in subsequent steps or the workflow definition.

Let’s consider a simple example where one step generates an output parameter and an output artifact, and another step consumes them:

**apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1  
kind: Workflow  
metadata:  
  generateName: artifact-passing-  
spec:  
  entrypoint: artifact-example  
  templates:  
  - name: artifact-example  
    steps:  
    - - name: generate-artifact  
        template: whalesay  
    - - name: consume-artifact  
        template: print-message  
        arguments:  
          artifacts:  
          - name: message  
            from: "{{steps.generate-artifact.outputs.artifacts.hello-art}}"**

  **- name: whalesay  
    container:  
      image: docker/whalesay:latest  
      command: [sh, -c]  
      args: ["cowsay hello world | tee /tmp/hello_world.txt"]  
    outputs:  
      artifacts:  
    - name: hello-art  
      path: /tmp/hello_world.txt**

  **- name: print-message  
    inputs:  
      artifacts:  
      - name: message  
        path: /tmp/message  
    container:  
      image: alpine:latest  
      command: [sh, -c]  
      args: ["cat /tmp/message"]**

First the **whalesay** template creates a file name **/tmp/hello-world.txt** by using the **cowsay** command. Next, it outputs this file as an artifact called **hello-art**. The **artifact-example** template provides the generated **hello-art** artifact as an output of the **generate-artifact** step. Finally, the **pint-message** template takes an input artifact called **message** and consumes it by unpacking it in **/tmp/message** path and using the **cat** command to print it into standard output.